Norway is ultimately at the mercy of the
success or failure of the Euro and the
Euro Zone oil is a key export and with
the prices down significantly from the
peak revenues are also subdued economic
growth is declining and unemployment has
increased will Norway break the cycle
you came here for the
truth let's look into Norway today hello
hello to all my friends from Norway I'm
always trying to look up information for
particular countries this is probably
one of the only channels where you see
particular country analysis I'm just
going to show a few points this is not a
comprehensive list this is just some
information that I was able to dig up
let's get into it right away very very
crucial digging deeper and deeper we're
looking at this out of Bloomberg Norway
plans to increase withdrawals from its
wealth fund next year amid the oils
slump that's key because when you see
this decline occurring depending on what
it's for in this case you're trying to
take money from citizens perhaps it's
business investment and you then have to
spread that somewhere else you know that
there is a problem and Norway is not
necessarily to blame specifically
because you remember this is a global
problem and then you look at the
disaster that Europe is right now I
would say Norway is doing a lot better
than many of the other countries but
it's still a problem that they need to
face it's the ripple effect look uh for
example you see Canada and the US if
Canada was doing swimmingly well when
you see that 80 plus% of the exports
depending on where you
look will go to the US if the US is
doing bad then obviously perhaps they're
not going to purchase a lot from Canada
perhaps you know exchange rates make a
big difference and everything else so
this is something that needs to be seen
not just the country itself but the
ripple effect it is very very key to
understand that let's go on Norway's GDP
now this is something that fluctuates
over the years but since the financial
crisis just like most countries the GDP
had risen and then you get to a point
where for a few years now I mean there's
an average here but we have seen a
decline it's been staggering just like
the GDP in any country you'll see that
in certain quarters they like to pull it
up and then other quarters they Let It
Drop they don't ever want to have two
consecutive quarters of uh negative uh
output here so when you see that that's
why there's always sort of a up and down
even though it seems more realistic that
it would be a much slower Pace
regardless anyway you're seeing the GDP
trending downward and it needs to really
change Pace or they are going to have
some problems this is the stock market
an index here look at it anyway and you
can see though that over the years this
a 5-year chart you can see clearly it
has risen and it is no different than a
lot of the other stock markets around
the US for example most notably where
the stock market has increased why
because savings accounts are dismal when
you see the amount of return that you'll
get people are being pushed in to
Investments they traditionally would not
be into you know they're getting not
individuals but you see a lot of these
investment companies getting into the
junk bonds and getting into every that
it could be risky could be uh something
that you necessarily wouldn't touch with
a 10-ft pole and then you have to get
into it that's the stock market besides
all of the you know obvious manipulation
the uh central banks in Investments
inside of the stock markets directly you
see that individuals are seeking better
returns and investment companies as well
so the stock market is obviously seeing
some of that look at the unemployment
rate now yes on the short term we have
seen a decline there's no doubt about
that but look where it came from since
the financial crisis while the stock
market is rising you're seeing
unemployment increase this is um
something
that it's uh
really takes a lot to really look at
because when you see other
countries the US for example
unemployment has been declining the fake
unemployment rate that they show has
been declining while the stock market is
increasing so a different situation here
in Norway that's for sure but ultimately
when you see unemployment at about 5% or
so you'll have to suggest that that is
low in comparison to a lot of other
countries compare that to a lot of areas
in Europe it's definitely much lower but
look where it was prior to the financial
crisis I mean practically everyone had
employment at this time and since the
financial crisis it has gone uh twice as
bad this year is just a little bit of
information it's a report out of the IMF
talking about uh Norway's situation and
in fact many other countries about the
negative interest rate policy and why
wet says that they do not have negative
interest rates directly in Norway uh let
me just read it to you here central
banks in
Norway Japan and Hungary lowered only
their deposit rate for excess Bank
Reserves while keeping the main policy
rate in positive territory while Some
central banks adopted the negative
interest rate policy to counter low
inflation others have focused on
mitigating spill over effects from the
unconventional monetary policy that's
right it's called Printing and negative
interest rates so that's just something
I wanted to mention just wanted to give
you an overview of what's happening I do
believe that all countries if they're
not going towards a negative interest
rate they are still manipulating they
are using the open market operations and
whatever other uh countries like to do
and manipulate these interest rates to
what serves them best not allowing the
free market to do so and ultimately
destroy destroying their currencies look
at this right here this is um The
Reserve
rate what you're seeing here is not the
bank lending rate not the equivalent of
the FED funds rate but it's still
important to note that a lot of Europe
and then you look at Japan you look at
other places where they have gone into
the negative territory it doesn't matter
all I'm trying to show here is that
the rates at which these central banks
are playing with are so far below where
they should be if you were to increase
interest
rates without looking at obviously the
destructive action that that would cause
people individuals would want to save
money in their Banks and that's a good
thing obviously for the banks who then
use it for the fractional Reserve
banking but they don't look at it like
that ultimately and last but not least
just wanted to show you this there's a
boom going on in Norway just like there
is in area as like Canada where you see
never before have house prices in Norway
risen so much in one year houseing
prices increased by an average of
88.3% in 2016 compared to the previous
year the biggest annual increase ever
additionally property prices were 12.8%
higher in December than December 2015
the biggest growth for any 12-month
period ever this is all because you can
get real estate for or real estate loans
mortgages for a cheap price compared to
where they were years ago it's the same
situation that's going on in Canada as
well there are many reasons why this is
happening the same thing in Canada it's
not just because interest rates are low
but when people feel that they're not
going to feel uh safe maybe in stocks
maybe they don't want to put their money
in mutual funds they're investing and
they're doing so they're Buy buying it
in real estate they're purchasing homes
they're purchasing second homes they're
getting into uh different Avenues into
the real estate market believing that
it's going to go up and up and up and up
and perhaps it's doing so at this time
but because of the manipulation going on
do not believe that anything that we're
seeing today is natural that is real
that this isn't all because of central
bank's ridiculous
dangerous policies that they are
applying globally if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up and last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my book The Money GPS even
more informative you can actually look
through the book If you go over to
Amazon they have this look inside
feature that will allow you to flip
through the pages of the book and see if
you like it take
care just a quick little note note on
the side I really wanted to know from
you if you made it to the end of the
video I'm sure you're one of the
faithful subscribers here I want to know
let me know if you appreciate the fact
that this is a very transparent
program I'm not you know all polished
I'm not you know coming up here and
having a prepared speech written you
know I I Tred to say what I have an idea
of things I I spend literally sometimes
I'll spend as as much as 3 hours to
provide a 10-minute video I know it
doesn't seem like that sometimes but uh
perhaps my delivery isn't the best
sometimes but I'm trying this is coming
from the heart I hope you appreciate
that I hope you appreciate the
transparency here the things that I tell
you that are be going on behind the
scenes I want to let you know about that
I'm trying to make this a very open
thing you know I'm a student as well
well a lot of people that come on here
they come on YouTube or maybe the
mainstream Media or anything else or the
so-called King of the alternative news
claiming that they're the best they're
getting this many views all the time
claiming all this and that well whereas
I'm saying look I'm a student as well I
read up on this information every single
day of my life and I'm trying to learn
more and more and more and more and then
I bring that information to you I try to
condense down what I've learned into
very short videos I hope you appreciate
that and that's all I wanted to say let
me know take care